Attention Is All You Need

Ashish Vaswani, Noam Shazeel, Niki Parmar, Jakob Uszkoreit, Llion Jones, Aidan N. Gomez, Lukasz Kaiser, Illia Polosukhin

Abstract

The dominant sequence transduction models are based on complex recurrent or convolutional neural networks that include an encoder and a decoder. The best performing models also connect the encoder and decoder through an attention mechanism. We propose a new simple network architecture, the Transformer, based solely on attention mechanisms, dispensing with recurrence and convolutions entirely. Experiments on two machine translation tasks show these models to be superior in quality while being more parallelizable and requiring significantly less time to train. Our model achieves 28.4 BLEU on the WMT 2014 English-to-German translation task, improving over the existing best results, including ensembles, by over 2 BLEU. On the WMT 2014 English-to-French translation task, our model establishes a new single-model state-of-the-art BLEU score of 41.8 after training for 3.5 days on eight GPUs, a small fraction of the training costs of the best models from the literature.

1. Introduction

Recurrent neural networks, long short-term memory and gated recurrent neural networks in particular, have been firmly established as state of the art approaches in sequence modeling and transduction problems such as language modeling and machine translation. Numerous efforts have continued to push the boundaries of recurrent language models and encoder-decoder architectures.

Recurrent models typically factor computation along the symbol positions of the input and output sequences. Aligning the positions to steps in computation time, they generate a sequence of hidden states h_t, as a function of the previous hidden state h_{t-1} and the input for position t. This inherently sequential nature precludes parallelization within training examples, which becomes critical at longer sequence lengths, as memory constraints limit batching across examples.

Attention mechanisms have become an integral part of compelling sequence modeling and transduction models, allowing modeling of dependencies without regard to their distance in the input or output sequences. In this work we propose the Transformer, a model architecture eschewing recurrence and instead relying entirely on an attention mechanism to draw global dependencies between input and output.

2. Model Architecture

The Transformer follows an encoder-decoder structure using stacked self-attention and point-wise, fully connected layers for both the encoder and decoder. The encoder maps an input sequence of symbol representations to a sequence of continuous representations. The decoder then generates an output sequence based on the encoded representations.

The encoder is composed of a stack of N=6 identical layers. Each layer has two sub-layers. The first is a multi-head self-attention mechanism, and the second is a position-wise fully connected feed-forward network. We employ a residual connection around each of the two sub-layers, followed by layer normalization.

The decoder is also composed of a stack of N=6 identical layers. In addition to the two sub-layers in each encoder layer, the decoder inserts a third sub-layer, which performs multi-head attention over the output of the encoder stack.

We use multi-head attention to allow the model to jointly attend to information from different representation subspaces at different positions. With a single attention head, averaging inhibits this. The multi-head attention mechanism runs several attention functions in parallel, producing concatenated output.

3. Training

We trained our models on the WMT 2014 English-to-German and English-to-French translation tasks. For English-to-German, we used the WMT 2014 English-German dataset consisting of about 4.5 million sentence pairs. For English-to-French, we used the WMT 2014 English-French dataset with 36M sentences.

We used the Adam optimizer with beta_1=0.9, beta_2=0.98 and epsilon=10^{-9}. We varied the learning rate over the course of training, increasing it linearly for the first warmup steps and decreasing it thereafter proportionally to the inverse square root of the step number.

4. Results

On the WMT 2014 English-to-German translation task, the big transformer model (Transformer (big) in Table 2) outperforms the best previously reported models (including ensembles) by 2.0 BLEU, establishing a new state-of-the-art BLEU score of 28.4. The configuration of this model is listed in the bottom line of Table 3.

On the WMT 2014 English-to-French translation task, our big model achieves a BLEU score of 41.0, outperforming all previously reported single models at less than 1/4 the training cost of the previous state-of-the-art model.

5. Conclusion

In this work, we presented the Transformer, the first sequence transduction model based entirely on attention, replacing the recurrent layers most commonly used in encoder-decoder architectures with multi-headed self-attention. For translation tasks, the Transformer can be trained significantly faster than architectures based on recurrent or convolutional layers.

References

[1] Bahdanau, D., Cho, K., and Bengio, Y. Neural machine translation by jointly learning to align and translate. In ICLR, 2015.
[2] Sutskever, I., Vinyals, O., and Le, Q. V. Sequence to sequence learning with neural networks. In NIPS, 2014.
[3] Gehring, J., Auli, M., Grangier, D., Yarats, D., and Dauphin, Y. N. Convolutional sequence to sequence learning. In ICML, 2017.
[4] Wu, Y., Schuster, M., Chen, Z., Le, Q. V., and Norouzi, M. Google's neural machine translation system. arXiv:1609.08144, 2016.
