BERT: Pre-training of Deep Bidirectional Transformers for Language Understanding

Jacob Devlin, Ming-Wei Chang, Kenton Lee, Kristina Toutanova

Google AI Language

Abstract

We introduce a new language representation model called BERT, which stands for Bidirectional Encoder Representations from Transformers. Unlike recent language representation models, BERT is designed to pre-train deep bidirectional representations from unlabeled text by jointly conditioning on both left and right context in all layers. As a result, the pre-trained BERT model can be fine-tuned with just one additional output layer to create state-of-the-art models for a wide range of tasks, such as question answering and language inference, without substantial task-specific architecture modifications.

BERT is conceptually simple and empirically powerful. It obtains new state-of-the-art results on eleven natural language processing tasks, including pushing the GLUE score to 80.5% (7.7% point absolute improvement), MultiNLI accuracy to 86.7% (4.6% absolute improvement), SQuAD v1.1 question answering Test F1 to 93.2 (1.5 point absolute improvement) and SQuAD v2.0 Test F1 to 83.1 (5.1 point absolute improvement).

1 Introduction

Language model pre-training has been shown to be effective for improving many natural language processing tasks. These include sentence-level tasks such as natural language inference and paraphrasing, which aim to predict the relationships between sentences by analyzing them holistically, as well as token-level tasks such as named entity recognition and question answering, where models are required to produce fine-grained predictions at the token level.

There are two existing strategies for applying pre-trained language representations to downstream tasks: feature-based and fine-tuning. The feature-based approach, such as ELMo, uses task-specific architectures that include the pre-trained representations as additional features. The fine-tuning approach, such as the Transformer encoder, introduces minimal task-specific parameters and is trained on the downstream tasks by simply fine-tuning all pre-trained parameters.

In this paper, we improve the fine-tuning based approaches by proposing BERT: Bidirectional Encoder Representations from Transformers. BERT alleviates the previously mentioned unidirectionality constraint by using a "masked language model" (MLM) pre-training objective.

2 Methodology

Our model is a multi-layer bidirectional Transformer encoder based on the original implementation described in Vaswani et al. We present two model sizes:
- BERTBASE: L=12, H=768, A=12, Total Parameters=110M
- BERTLARGE: L=24, H=1024, A=16, Total Parameters=340M

2.1 Pre-training Tasks

Task 1: Masked LM - We randomly mask some percentage of the input tokens and predict those masked tokens.
Task 2: Next Sentence Prediction - We train the model to understand sentence relationships.

2.2 Fine-tuning Procedure

For fine-tuning, the final hidden vector corresponding to the first input token ([CLS]) is used as the aggregate representation for classification tasks.

3 Experiments

3.1 GLUE

The General Language Understanding Evaluation (GLUE) benchmark is a collection of diverse natural language understanding tasks. Results show that BERTLARGE achieves 80.5% average score.

3.2 SQuAD

On the Stanford Question Answering Dataset (SQuAD), BERT achieves 93.2 F1 score on SQuAD v1.1 and 83.1 F1 on SQuAD v2.0.

3.3 Named Entity Recognition

On the CoNLL-2003 Named Entity Recognition task, BERT achieves 92.8 F1 score.

4 Conclusion

BERT advances the state of the art for eleven NLP tasks. We show that careful attention to the directionality in the pre-trained representations is crucial. Our results suggest that with sufficient pre-training, bidirectional representations can be as useful as unidirectional ones.

References

[1] Peters, M., Neumann, M., Iyyer, M., Gardner, M., Clark, C., Lee, K., and Zettlemoyer, L. Deep contextualized word representations. In Proceedings of NAACL-HLT, pages 2227-2237, 2018.

[2] Radford, A. and Sutskever, I. Improving language understanding by generative pre-training. Technical report, OpenAI, 2018.

[3] Vaswani, A., Shazeer, N., Parmar, N., Uszkoreit, J., Jones, L., Gomez, A. N., Kaiser, L., and Polosukhin, I. Attention is all you need. In NeurIPS, pages 5998-6008, 2017.

[4] Devlin, Jacob, Chang, Ming-Wei, Lee, Kenton, Toutanova, Kristina. BERT: Pre-training of deep bidirectional transformers for language understanding. 2018.

[5] Conneau, A., Kiela, D., Schwenk, H., Barrault, L., and Bordes, A. Supervised learning of universal sentence representations from natural language inference data. In EMNLP, 2017.

[6] Rajpurkar, P., Zhang, J., Lopyrev, K., and Liang, P. SQuAD: 100,000+ questions for machine comprehension of text. In EMNLP, pages 2383-2392, 2016.

[7] Tjong Kim Sang, E. F. and De Meulder, F. Introduction to the CoNLL-2003 shared task: Language-independent named entity recognition. 2003.

[8] Williams, A., Nangia, N., and Bowman, S. A broad-coverage challenge corpus for sentence understanding through inference. In NAACL, pages 1112-1122, 2018.

[9] Liu, X., He, P., Chen, W., and Gao, J. Multi-task deep neural networks for natural language understanding. 2019.
